# CS-465: Full Stack Development I

## Table of Contents

*   [Project Summary](#project-summary)
*   [Author Notes](#author-notes)

## Project Summary
The goal of this project was to build a full stack web application for a hypothetical travel company, Travlr Getaways. The web application is designed to utilize the MEAN stack and includes security features for a secure login authentication process. For the front end development, the project was initially using Express HTML, but this was switched to the Handlebars templating language to help with rendering speeds. JavaScript's role within the project was to provide access to dynamic elements on each webpage, such as the trip information within the MongoDB database, since HTML itself only allows for static elements. Further iterations of the web application make use of a single-page application, or SPA. The benefit of using a single-page application is that we don't need to account for the browser reloading the web page based on specific interactions, unlike a standard HTML page. For this reason, a SPA would be very convenient to the end-user in terms of a pleasant mobile browsing experience. Otherwise, for our desktop users, this would provide a much more native feel to the application, as there is less time spent waiting for page reloads. As for the backend, I chose to use a NoSQL MongoDB database, for several reasons. In terms of scalability, it is extremely efficient due to the ease of modifying schema, and the ability to expand upon the existing database. Additionally, it is fast and capable of handling large amounts of data with a scale-out architecture.

JSON, or JavaScript Object Notation, is a text-based data format that follows JavaScript object syntax, although it is independent of any specific programming language. JavaScript differs from JSON since it is its own programming language. However, JSON is essentially JavaScript object literal syntax. In order to tie together the frontend and backend development pieces, the web application can take JSON formed object data and easily transform it into an object that is useable by JavaScript. For example, we are able to store JSON data relating to trip information in the form of strings and such, that JavaScript is able to turn into a JavaScript object. During the full stack process, one of the instances where I refactored code in order to improve functionality and efficiencies was the development of the trip card component, in conjunction with the trip list component. Initially, the two components rendered the same data, therefore, decreasing efficiency. I refactored the component code to allow for each trip to render independently based on the specific trip card view, improving performance and functionality. Finally, I want to mention some of the benefits that come with reusable user interface (UI) components, which includes an easier development process, increased scalability, a better user experience due to familiarity, and consistent coding structures.

In a full stack application, methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, along with necessary layers of security. The methods that exist within the full stack application include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. These are HTTP requests that are driven by the backend of the application in order to retrieve or modify database information, based on the user request. The endpoints are the results of each method inquiry, and are visible to the admin or client side of the web application. During development, endpoints were created to determine whether data was being displayed properly per each specific HTTP request, and includes specific endpoints for relevant errors to aid in program debugging. Lastly, in order to achieve a desired amount of security within the full stack application, I implemented a secure login process that prevents unauthenticated users from being able to access or modify specific database components, i.e. trip listing information.

## Author Notes
After completing this course, I have learned several important skills that will help me reach my professional goals as a software engineer, and I aim to improve upon these skills as I continue my journey towards becoming the best developer that I can be. I believe that understanding the components of a full stack application is a very important and sought-after skill for any candidate in the software industry, and I am confident in my understanding of the material that I have worked with thus far. Throughout this course, I have learned how to implement the MEAN stack and launch a full stack application, implement security features, and familiarized myself with Express HTML, Handlebars templates, and single-page applications. Furthermore, I have expanded upon my pre-existing knowledge of JavaScript, NoSQL MongoDB databases, and JSON formatting. I am excited to continue learning more about the full stack application process and exploring the limitless capabilities that come with it.
